[Music]
okay sam i'm so happy to have you on my
podcast after all the times of listening
to yours and watching seo man on
linkedin
[Laughter]
yeah thanks for taking the time um
before we get into the actual questions
can you tell me a little bit about your
background i'm always interested in the
backstory of how people end up doing
what they're doing so how did you get
into seo and website design
yeah it's a bit of a funny story i guess
so my the quick snapshot of my
background is i used to work in retail
which my wife now still does she's like
a store assistant manager and basically
i hated it so i i worked in a shop
selling cameras for about a year or so
and quickly realized that i hated
talking face to face the general public
i kind of enjoyed the selling part but i
didn't like the fact that basically
everyone gave me abuse probably because
i was a terrible salesperson face to
face and
eventually i was like i was talking to
my cousin who's tom he's actually a
co-owner where i work now at webchoice
one of the other owners with myself and
another guy and he said look sam there's
this opportunity coming up a company
called webchoice this was 10 11 years
ago now as like a project manager stroke
junior sales guy and i was like great
let's let's do an interview did an
interview a couple days later and they
basically said yeah you can start so i
quit that job there and then the old
retail job got into
building websites and didn't really know
what seo was back then
and
kind of started from the bottom up
really like a bit like a jack of all
trades kind of thing so started off
doing some project management
communicating with clients
doing some wireframing so mapping out
website builds
doing some sales calls
um
and just just kind of dabbling in in all
ends of the spectrum really and over the
last
yeah 11 10 years or so i've come and
left web choice probably about three
times until i came back about
four or so years ago
and started getting more serious about
business became a co-owner at the
company and we've just started scaling
up the business quite um aggressively
building up our seo division as i've
learned more and more about digital
marketing about websites about b2b
and yeah we've scaled up our client base
scaled up our knowledge i started my
podcast on marketing business growth
show about two and a bit years ago which
has really helped me
in terms of my own success in terms of
the business success and also learning
from people that are way smarter than me
at marketing um
and that's that's kind of a quick quick
couple minutes ready but feel free to
jump in if you wish well the seo part
is that something that you found
interesting for a particular reason or
was it just something like you kind of
fell into and you just been doing it
yeah i mean the short answer is that
website builds
they're great but a lot of businesses us
included rather selfishly we need
monthly recurring revenue to
to grow to scale
so we looked at the business where it
was we thought well website builds are
quite good in terms of what we can offer
but often only leads on to like a
maintenance or hosting plan just like
many b2b sas companies we need a
recurring revenue model too so let's
look at seo seo is what we always did at
web choice to get our inbound because
it's our number one source of inbounds
we thought why not kind of focus on that
for clients to kind of build up our seo
team in internally and then started
offering that to clients as it was a
great way to say kind of look we built
your website let's start getting you
found on google start getting some
traffic start getting you some inbound
leads from google search to supplement
the work we've already done
okay yeah it's interesting but lately
i've been hearing a lot about how seo
like doesn't work anymore and where did
that start and what's the truth behind
that
from
from what i can tell and i'd like to
know your take on it as well linda is
i think it from what i can see is it's a
lot of people that are really really
focused on demand generation
so people that kind of think that demand
gen is the be-all end-all um which i
think demand gen's great i mean we do it
ourselves right i run a podcast just
like yourself and put out content on
linkedin put out video content build
awareness so demand jen is the
pro
a rough summary is that you're basically
putting out contents over time you're
building trust in the market for people
that aren't ready to buy yet and then
over time you build up that positioning
they'll build trust in you so when they
do need help they'll come to you right
right whereas seo is the complete other
end of the funnel
seo
namely if you want success in seo you're
focusing on people that are actually
aware that they've got a problem or
aware that they need a solution
and they're going to google they're
typing in i need help with x or best x
provider or crm provider or best
whatever um or they're comparing you to
competitor because they have high buying
intent they type in on google if your
website comes up in the first page in
the first few results the chances are
they're going to click your website and
then request to speak to sales or book a
demo whatever that call to action is
so
i think a lot of people just disregard
seo because they think that demand gen
is to be your lender when i'm not
against demand i like it i do it but i
think that's creating demand seo or paid
search as well is capturing the demand
right i think a lot of people forget
that doing both
having a multi-channel strategy having a
mix up in your marketing strategy
is just a smart move
especially if you're a business that
wants to scale why would you not want to
create your own demand and capture the
demand that's already out there on the
market to me it just makes sense i mean
it's certainly not dead because it's our
number one revenue source and a lot of
clients a lot of partners we work with
it's similar
and
the only thing i would
yeah go ahead i was just gonna say i
love that differentiation because i
never really thought about it like that
and it comes down to levels of awareness
like when as a copywriter you know we
talk about you know people who are
unaware that they have a problem and
then people who are
pain aware is usually where people start
looking
um but unaware could also be i use the
example of some someone who has a
plumbing business i mean you don't
really think about your plumbing until
all of a sudden your house is flooded
and you go from being unaware to being
you know at the upper end of
most aware so what it sounds like you're
saying is that you know for
seo is going to capture the unaware
people who maybe all of a sudden need
your service as well as pain aware where
demand jen is like okay i know you know
like for me it's like oh people know i'm
a copywriter and so hopefully when they
need someone they'll consider me so
that's a great way to differentiate you
were going to say something else on that
yeah i can't can't remember really
remember where i was going to go but i
can rift off what you said there that's
that's basically it i mean both things
having a successful business if you're a
marketer if you're a c-suite if you're a
business owner ultimately you want to
kind of drive a profitable out of
revenue and keep scaling your business
and if you do like you say demand gen
whether that's having a podcast whether
that's
doing video content whether that's
linkedin and then
to raise that awareness over time so
position you is the only choice and then
likewise if you capture the demand
whereas these people they might not know
about your brand at all yet but they're
literally needing your help because like
you said maybe their house is flooded or
maybe their crm just broke because it
overloaded with data and it's not
syncing up to their sales cooling
software whatever that issue is
that they urgently need your help they
type in on google and then the chances
are they can convert on your website but
seo can also help with kind of less
higher intent buyers so we're talking
about then capturing high intent buying
demand but it can also equate to people
that are the comparison stage so maybe
they're comparing your product against a
competitor on the market i.e a product
versus b product
and then if you've got a useful article
on your site that kind of shows the
advantages of both and kind of
positioned you as the leader maybe
they'll inquire you there yeah or even
higher up the funnel very early
awareness stages where people are
searching things like how to do x or
best ways to do b or top tips to do y
which
yeah that's kind of really really early
in the sales funnel but if you're
providing useful content maybe someone
will sign up for
your email series or maybe someone will
check out your video channel your
podcast and then they're kind of aware
of your brand so then the demand gen can
link back to that so there's a lot of
ways that seo can add value to a
business mm-hmm yeah and that so now
you're talking about like solution aware
where people are comparing and that
happens a lot especially when you have
sites like amazon where they actually
literally have these charts like here's
what you're looking at and here's what
all the other ones are out there yeah
but that's that's b to c more than b to
b um but one of the things i wanted to
ask i heard you recently on another
podcast and talking about
um it was more about website design you
were talking about and how
and how
what was important to capture
conversions and you talked about and i'm
listening okay he's got to talk about
copy at some point he's got to talk
about copy and you didn't through the
whole hour like no and so i'm like okay
classics i have a bone to pick with you
about that so what
is it because the reason i'm asking too
is that i work with web designers and
developers and
there's almost not a clash
but there is
it's like they have something in mind
and you did say that you know copy is
supposed to be
first before the design because okay as
you said on this particular interview
that can mess up the design so i mean
how
what how does copy and
website or or seo how should they work
together and is it just my imagination
that i get pushed back
this is a good question but you're
probably right i probably did neglect it
i was probably trying to squeeze as much
as i could into like five minute
conversation probably trying to talk
about seo conversion and just slipped
over my head which just does sound very
much like me um
but no you're you're completely right i
mean con copy content is a huge part of
a website build right and like you said
it should be ideally you want to think
of it before you do designs because it
might throw out the designs it might be
like you say the design is trying to
squeeze all this illustration this
formatting the mobile view the desktop
view around it but yeah when you're
talking about seo if you can
if we're breaking it down in its
entirety and you're talking about a
website redesign or a fresh website
build for a startup whatever position
you're in
then yeah it's super important because
if you're doing things like starting an
seo campaign and you've just nailed
maybe some of the target keywords or
search terms that you want people to
actually find your website for around
your product around your offering
and
then actually making sure that the
content on your site resonates with that
and it's going to be relevant it's going
to be helpful and so if you're talking
about your homepage it's going to give
clear messaging on what you do how you
help how to get in touch if you're
talking about informational service
pages it's going to clearly show the
value prop it's going to show how it
solves people's problems it's going to
answer their common questions it's going
to handle their objections which is not
only good from an seo point of view
because it tackles those pain points but
it's also good from a user experience
because it's giving people the
information they need nice and quick so
yeah definitely agree that content's a
big part um
it just seems like it's it's kind of um
well some people
will focus so much on design
i remember seeing a website from it was
another copywriter a few years ago and i
think she's since changed it it was so
animated and so i mean visually it was
like
something you know like a movie set i
mean it was crazy i don't even remember
what the copy was but it had like
cans of soda rolling around the soda had
different logos on it and it was
involved and i my first thought was
that's really cool i want that but then
i thought you know it really takes away
from the messaging i mean can you do too
much in that way with with design that
it gets away from
you know just it's distracting
oh for sure from the matter sure
and like when we start first started
building websites we had a bad habit
which is basically to let the customer
or the client do whatever the heck they
wanted with their design and like we're
talking like nine ten years ago when we
just got into it and the problem is that
yes you can make a website that looks
slick that's got all these mad
animations like you mentioned there and
looks completely state of the art but
then you've got to think do i want my
website to look like a picasso like to
look like some awesome picture or
painting or do i actually want it to
generate results for my business
i.e let's say in the b2b space or the
service industry space most people want
their website to generate a steady flow
of sales inquiries or leads or demo
requests if your website is focused on
looking amazing like we're looking like
a work of art it might take you away
from the fact that the messaging as you
you know lender has got to be crystal
clear on kind of what you do how you're
going to help them how you're going to
fix their problem then guy maybe layer
that up with some social proof some
testimonials accreditations etc and then
point them to speak to cells whereas if
you're purely focused on a world-class
design that's just crazy that's really
animated not only is it gonna
take away from the fact of the actual
end result you want it's gonna perhaps
deter people because they might get
annoyed that they can't find what
they're looking for it might slow down
your website as well it might be a poor
load load speed and it's just
yeah it's it's all about balance right
like many things marketing right
well what what do people get wrong as
far as like seo on their website and the
reason i ask this is i was once hired to
redo an entire the copy for an entire
website
because the um
the ceo had hired an seo copywriter so
it ranked real high up in google but the
copy itself was very bland but the the
phrases that they wanted were all over
it i mean is there a way to
to incorporate seo in a more subtle way
as far as the copy goes
like where can you
use it so that it has the most impact
yeah i mean it's it's very situational
right like you said because some sites
do rank well and they're just jammed
with target keywords and keyword
stuffing is definitely an outdated
practice
it might trick google for a little bit
but eventually they might kind of down
rank or even blacklist your site which
is definitely what you don't want um or
like you said if a kind of half sensible
person lands on your site and they can
just they they're taken to an
information page so let's go back to
your plumbing example so maybe you need
a plumbing help and you type in like
plumber near me you click on their
website and it just says we are plumbers
near you we are helping with plumbing
near me and we're plumbing right near
you now and it's like what this website
doesn't even make sense you'll probably
think like it's a fake site and just
click onto another one whereas like many
things like i was talking about before
striking your balance right so ideally
you want someone that's putting together
the content as as you know linda that's
going to be a
have some kind of expertise in the field
that can actually speak some sense on
this topic provide some useful content
to the reader whether that is talking
about how they get the job done talking
about how they fix the issue answering
some questions around it
maybe supplementing that with some
infographics and videos whatever
supporting content they want some
statistics etc um but at the same time
making sure those relevant search terms
are incorporated but not jammed on the
page yeah
so it reads terribly
did you see that funny meme about i
think it was a dentist that the sign on
his the sign in the the name of his
dental practice was dentist near me so
that way i think
yeah there's some good ones like that
that's funny but yeah because the thing
is and people so you attract people
through you know google and then when
they get to your site if they're
disappointed they're going to bounce so
it's you know you need to like you said
have that balance
um
but what are some ways to get like
qualified inbound leads from your site
like what is it that you can do with seo
to
increase yeah
i mean there's there's a bunch i guess
there's two angles to it right it's the
first is
actually attracting the prospects your
target client to your site
so in seo essence that's making sure
your website appears on google page one
organic for the relevant search terms
that target clients are actually typing
in and finding your services
so whether that is like best ex provider
or
um company for why or whatever you want
to rank for and you can use tools like
ahrefs or semrush or ubersuggest to help
you find relevant search terms or check
out what your competition are doing
when it comes to doing that research so
there's and then there's actual kind of
on-page seo
so making sure that your website
is technically sound so some key things
are things like making sure your page
speed your website loads nice and quick
ideally one second or less making sure
it's got a mobile and desktop friendly
design
um and like we talked about earlier
making sure your content is relevant
you're not trying to jam everything on
one to one two or three pages you've got
relevant pages for each product each
service each location you serve each key
feature of your offering if it's split
into industries you've got dedicated
pages for each industry maybe you've got
a resources hub that has blog articles
that has pr that has podcasts resources
so everything is navigated clearly and
structured concisely so put yourself in
your customers shoes if they were
landing on your site and you're trying
to jam everything into one or two
landing pages it's not going to be clear
especially if you offer something that
appeals to various demographics and has
various levels of service
so making sure that's sorted and then
off-site seo without going in too much
depth is things like distributing
articles building backlinks building up
the domain authority so
we can jump into that in more depth if
you wish but that's actually getting the
people with high intent on google to
your site and then the second part of it
is converting them
um so we've driven the prospect to the
site now we need to actually turn that
hard earned visitor it doesn't matter if
they've come from google search paid
search somewhere else into a qualified
opportunity
right so yes a big part of this again
some of the first things you want to
consider uh page feed that i mentioned
earlier which is the silent killer of
websites because if your site takes more
than a few seconds to load people are
going to bounce off and head to a
competitor that gives them a good
experience that seems so short but i
know you talked about that before like
on linkedin
that's really like one to three seconds
is that the general rule
i recommend one second or close to um
reason being is because it is a google
ranking factor and also
i mean if you put yourself in a prospect
shoes i mean i don't know about yourself
linda um feel free to correct me i'd
probably give a site kind of
two three or so seconds
to load the home page but then
if it kept being slow as i flick through
so if i was trying to look at their
services about page maybe pricing and
eventually contact it would get quite
frustrating until
um
so yeah it's going to put people off
yeah and
yeah it's a page speed straight away and
then messaging we've talked about a bit
as soon as someone for example lands on
your home or landing page you want to
clearly show
what it is you do
so if if you're stuck on what to use for
your headline
avoid award winning um then
don't do what every every other company
does yeah try and avoid jargon which i'm
sure you you um talked about as well in
about yeah i don't think you can go too
far wrong what you what's your take i
mean why if people are unsure what to
put their headline i say if you're not
sure at all clarity is is usually the
best route so literally say exactly what
you do um
we do x to bring y result um
and then you can refine that over time
for your headline
yeah i talk to like when i work with a
client i talk to their customers and
ideally as many as i can
get and i find out what is you know
what's the differentiating factor what's
the value proposition and for for sas
companies especially that usually is
what you see on their hero section with
the you know the big banner on the top
i'm defining because i've had people
email me what is the hero section um but
yeah so it's the big banner on top and
it really should say right up front like
it's interesting because moving into
this new house that we have we got a
postcard the other day and in fact i'm
thinking of breaking it down on linkedin
because it's so interesting i couldn't
tell what they were trying to sell me it
had a a table that was nicely set the
name of the
business was
in french or something and it looked
like
i couldn't tell if it was a food
delivery service if it was if they sold
like a william sonoma sort of thing and
i got on their website still couldn't
tell
and so and it seems like they're
successful i mean i think businesses can
be successful in spite of themselves if
they're well known enough but yeah i
agree that i mean you need to right out
of the gate tell people what you do it
turned out i think they sell i still i'm
not sure kitchen furnishings like dishes
okay
i don't know yeah but yeah it's uh it's
an important thing
yeah for sure
i mean um exactly because if you're
driving people that
have never heard of your brand before
ultimately you want to kind of clearly
demonstrate straight away how you're
going to be what you do and how it's
going to help them
and then a couple other kind of key key
points on the conversion point is having
that main call to actions the main thing
you want people to take above the fold
so before someone scrolls whether that's
learn more
book a demo
and view our work view our portfolio etc
maybe you've got two two call to actions
to view the work view that uh or contact
sales so
giving people the option if they are
ready to inquire to do it fast
um
and whilst we're on that note
menu now i mean this is a basic one but
having your main call to action top
right or stuck at least in your menu
navigation so no matter when people
scroll your menu nav is sticky it's
fixed to the top of your site so when
people scroll down they can easily click
to kind of book that consult call or
whatever your main call to action is
and then
what you'll find is
not many people on on pages of websites
actually always scroll to the bottom
so
once you've done your value prop and
your hero and your banner area and
you've had your call to action you
probably want to layer some social proof
quite quickly right to build some trust
so whether that is having like a
testimonial
section whether that is showing who
you're accredited with whether it's a
customer interview video with results
you've brought or something like that
kind of splash people overhead with some
proof that you can do what you're
claiming quite quickly
um because not everyone goes scrolls
down right the way to the bottom and
some people kind of put their
testimonials right at the bottom of the
site
which is almost a risk because it
doesn't often happen that people scroll
that far
um
so that that's a couple of things
straight on the home page and then
from my experience and feel free to kind
of call me up on other other industries
if you want but
for most kind of b2b or sas providers
and stuff like that people are offering
some kind of service or some kind of
software and the main goal is to drive
leads for the site
then some of the main most important
pages on the um on their website home
about us
usually the service pages
pricing
maybe work or results or case studies
and then the contact or the demo page
so
yeah look considering those pages are
quite important
making sure everything is is clearly
sharing kind of what you do the problems
you solve how you help answering common
questions which you talked about just
now so if there's common questions that
you get on a certain topic on sales
calls then leveraging those on the page
itself um is always useful because it's
going to save your sales team time it's
also going to perhaps give people the
information they need to be in order to
then contact you or handle their
objection
and
don't be afraid to if you are a service
or software provider or anything similar
don't be afraid to show your pricing
because you might get the reason being
is a lot of people are scared a lot of
businesses are scared to show pricing
because if they think they'll get less
leads which is actually true um
because less people want to speak to
sales but it's good
because it helps qualify prospects yeah
and i don't know about you but i'd
rather speak to people that can afford
my stuff rather than have a 20-minute
convo with someone that can never ever
afford to work with me yeah no i love
wasting my time no
no i have i have pricing on my page even
though i do a lot of custom you know
sort of work but at least to give people
an idea of what to expect because
copywriters you know pricing is all over
the place i'm sort of in the middle as
far as my pricing but i don't want it
because it's happened enough times i'm
sure with you too you know people get on
the phone with you and
and even though they don't say anything
when you talk about price you never hear
from them and you know that's what it is
you know so why not just you know
be upfront so i agree with that
um one last question so what do you
think
or what is the biggest frustration for
you when like something you see over and
over again that people do either with
seo or their website
aside from what you've already talked
about is there anything else yeah oh
yeah there's loads i mean i've literally
got a list for about 100 points but
something that i should have mentioned
earlier is probably one of my biggest
issues let's do one for seo one for
websites i mean the biggest issue for
websites for me is when people design it
over what they personally think looks
great
so ego and yeah and like i say yeah they
they design it for ego um which is a
killer for most marketing things doesn't
matter if it's your website ads
offline advertising etc um so
really drilling down into which as you
talked about earlier on customer
research for content um
joining down to what your kind of target
clients actually care about so
if you've got a website already
why not take five of your best five to
seven of your best current customers and
say look can you do you mind sitting
down with me for five minutes
ten minutes whatever going through the
existing site let me know what you think
works well
what you think's missing which is
important
um because that's when they might bring
up things like i would like to see
pricing or case studies or certain
results what you think can be improved
what's not detailed enough
and just getting those those key points
really on what they think needs work and
also
ask them if you can interview
prospective customers perhaps people
that you've not yet done business with
which is a little bit more difficult i
appreciate so that's when you want to
leverage your network or offer people
some kind of incentive to chat with you
now if you can understand things about
what they target clients care most about
when viewing a vendor in your category's
website
that's really really useful um
because like from my interviews i've
done that's why i know there's kind of
key pages home about
services kind of portfolio results in
pricing and contact are really important
so if you can know the main pages that
people want to see if you can understand
what they actually want to see on them
whether that is like customer video
interviews whether that's getting your
messaging right whether it's some kind
of other social proof or
another way to contact you so perhaps
you've limited your contact options just
a calendar and maybe people would rather
give you a call right here and now or
maybe people would rather speak to an
email
so understanding what they actually want
to see on your website and then once
you've got the feedback leveraging the
common things that are said leveraging
the patterns and then building that into
your website
um but with that said customer research
is great but a website is never the
finished article right there's always
little tweaks and changes to your
content your design your
pages and that's when you can leverage
things like analytics and heat map tools
and a lot lots of other little things to
improve your session times and
conversion rates so
it's never ending but those are some
basics okay and seo is that included in
the seo website yeah so seo um probably
one of the most frustrating things is
when i think i said this the other day
on linkedin actually but when website
companies or website agencies say that a
website is fully seoed just because they
installed a plug-in like yoast on
wordpress or something similar
um i wish it was that simple and unless
you're in a super niche industry like
selling
second-hand bikes in the southeast
region of texas and that's your target
keyword you're probably not going to
rank on google um
because there's a lot more that goes
into seo like i talked about earlier so
doing your keyword research your on-site
work your offsite work your link
building
sadly there's a lot more that goes into
it than just installing a plug-in or
putting a few words on a page yeah um
yeah that's why you get clients because
you have people like me who the only
thing i know about seo is that those
keywords i should have on my site and
that's where it begins and ends and i
never seem to have them have enough
according to my website person so but
then you're great at copying i'm not
that good at writing so swings
[Laughter]
so
yeah you have to work with your
strengths you know that's the thing so
um is there anything else you wanted to
mention that i haven't asked you
about this topic i think we've i think
we've covered most of it i mean if if
you want to ask me on many more
actionables on on seo then happy to jump
into that now or a later date or if
there's anything else you want to know
around
kind of the difference between
demand gen demand capture and those kind
of things is what people ask me but i
think that's
we've covered some of the basics how
about three seo tips like since that's
really um you know that's something like
i i would like to know personally so i
figured maybe there's other people like
if if you're looking at your website and
you're thinking okay i need to rank
higher on google what are things like
maybe three things you can do right away
yeah yeah yeah so three three things you
can do right now
is first and foremost think about
what you actually want to get business
so make a list of perhaps the main
services you offer
what you actually want to get business
for um whether that is whether you're a
service-based business or perhaps in
your case linda um like you do
copywriting for sas companies right
um just general uh b2b small business
yeah okay which is fine better but
okay gotcha
so in your case it might be something
like um b2b copywriters for small
business might be one target search term
is just off the top of my head
so making a list of those kind of
relevant search terms to what you
actually want people to find you for and
then then you can use a tool like i
talked about earlier so something like
ahrefs semrush uber suggests that can
tell you the competitiveness of them it
can also give you similar search terms
there's another site called ask the
public which is really cool
yeah yeah that's good for content
writing right i think it's answer the
public isn't it that's the one yeah yeah
absolutely i use it i use it i like it
yeah that's good i use that for podcast
ideas as well oh exactly yeah yeah it's
quite a cool one so you can type in
search phrases there and it gives you a
bunch of other alternatives so those
kind of tools
and to do some research on what search
terms are going to be relevant what your
competitors are doing and then once
you've made a list say if you're a small
business maybe you'll do a list of 10
target search terms then you need to
make sure your website is relevant for
those
because you don't want to send everyone
to your home page for certain search
terms because if i'm searching for
i don't know copywriting tips or a
detailed amount of information on how
you're going to help me with my small
business copywriting your homepage might
not have that whereas you've had a
service tab and then under that service
tab you help you say one of my
industries i serve a small business
that's gonna be a lot more relevant
because it'll say look this is typically
the pain point small business have this
is how we help them these are the common
questions they have here's a customer
interview of a small business we
recently helped and here's the increase
in results we've got for them that's a
lot more actionable a lot more helpful a
lot more detailed
then you can google that keyword you can
see what your competitors are doing on
their information pages right now
um you can see how many words they've
used you can see how detailed that copy
is and you can look for angles ways in
that you can one-up them
so let's say some your competitor that's
the number one organic result right now
has got maybe 500 words um they've got a
couple questions and that's about it
okay let's try and add some more depth
to it let's try and cover some angles
they haven't let's try and answer some
questions i get quite a lot from my
customers let's leverage it with some
testimonials and let's just beef up what
they've got already that's the second
tip and then after that this is all on
page seo stuff after that then yeah if
you have got a wordpress site you can
install a plugin like yoast and you can
start doing things like adding page
titles adding meta titles and
descriptions which is the result that's
shown on the search engines and
doing other technical seo points making
sure your website is mobile friendly
making sure it loads nice and quick
making sure you have got that menu
structure navigation like we talked
about
um
and then
also making sure your website's got a
site map um so doing those basic on-page
seo things
and just making sure your website is
ultimately gonna give people a good
experience and give them the information
they need nice and quick and then of
course supplementing that with call to
actions so if people do want to speak to
sales they can
and then i guess the final tip is doing
a little bit of off-page seo so
one free way to build decent backlinks
for your site is to actually
guest on podcasts
and
there's a really
sneaky way that you can do that is you
can go onto a site called chartable i
think it's chartable.com and there's a
bunch of other similar sites
you can then go on to travel you can
click onto the category that you want or
the country you want first choose a
category
my case marketing
i don't know if there's a category for
content not sure but there's basically
categories around almost every industry
view the top hundred podcast results
and then check which podcast except
guests
tailored outreach to say the top 50
connect with them on linkedin send them
a nice personalized email like recently
listen to your episode on x really
enjoyed a and b would love to be a guest
and share this on there a lot of people
will accept you might have to email them
a couple times or reach out a couple of
times
once you do the show you do a great show
you provide tips you do a bit of pr at
the end you say look you can catch one
there so it boosts your pr
and then you ask them to do an article
page on their website for you which
promotes the page and you say look can
you give me a back link to this page
this is the page i'm trying to rank at
the moment for this particular service
most people say yes
um oh it's a nice nice free way to get a
quality backlink to your site and also
get an email from me expect an email
yeah
that's awesome yeah that was more than
three tips that was more like 30 tips i
appreciate it
great action action taking so where can
people find you
and
what um you're on linkedin and where
else yeah yeah yeah so connect me on
linkedin it's sam dunning share website
and seo tips most days um otherwise
you've got the podcast business growth
show marketing podcast where i share
solo episodes and interview guests on
marketing categories marketing just like
this podcast and also i do my own solo
website and seo tip guides otherwise um
if you're perhaps a marketer or a
business owner that's tired of seeing
your competitors ahead of you on google
every time you search for your main
product or offering or maybe you're
investing in marketing already or your
website is failing to convert those
hard-earned visitors into a steady flow
of qualified sales leads then our
website is webchoiceuk.com we'd be happy
to chat and see if we can help you
great
all right thanks so much sam i really
appreciate it it's been a great great
talking to you
thank you for having me linda